Google translated version of https://www.gov.cn/zhengce/2021-12/25/content_5712868.htm

Regulations on the Procedure for Handling Road Traffic Safety Violations

(Promulgated by the Ministry of Public Security Order No. 105 on December 20, 2008 and amended by the Ministry of Public Security Order No. 157 on April 7, 2020)

Contents

Chapter I General Provisions

Chapter II Jurisdiction

Chapter III Investigation and Evidence Collection

Section I General Provisions

Section II Traffic Technical Monitoring

Chapter IV Application of Administrative Compulsory Measures

Chapter V Administrative Penalties

Section I Decision on Administrative Penalties

Section II Execution of Administrative Penalties

Chapter VI Supervision of Law Enforcement

Chapter VII Other Provisions

Chapter VIII Supplementary Provisions



Chapter I General Provisions


Article 1 These Regulations are formulated in accordance with the Road Traffic Safety Law of the People's Republic of China and its Implementing Regulations and other laws and administrative regulations in order to standardize the procedures for handling road traffic safety violations, ensure that the traffic management departments of public security organs perform their duties correctly, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of citizens, legal persons and other organizations.

Article 2 The procedures for handling road traffic safety violations (hereinafter referred to as violations) by the traffic management departments of public security organs and their traffic police shall be implemented in accordance with these regulations within the scope of statutory powers.

Article 3 The handling of violations shall follow the principles of legality, fairness, civilization, openness and timeliness, respect and safeguard human rights, and protect the personal dignity of citizens.

The handling of violations shall adhere to the principle of combining education with punishment, and educate citizens, legal persons and other organizations to consciously abide by road traffic safety laws and regulations.

The handling of violations shall be based on facts and shall be commensurate with the facts, nature, circumstances and degree of social harm of the violations.



Chapter II Jurisdiction



Article 4 Violations discovered by traffic police during duty and law enforcement shall be under the jurisdiction of the traffic management department of the public security organ where the violations occurred.

In case of disputes over jurisdiction, the common higher-level public security traffic management department shall be reported to designate jurisdiction. The higher-level public security traffic management department shall promptly determine the subject of jurisdiction and notify all parties to the dispute.

Article 5 The offender may handle the violation recorded by the traffic technical monitoring equipment at the place where the violation occurred, the place where the motor vehicle was registered, or any other place where the traffic management department of the public security organ handles the violation recorded by the traffic technical monitoring equipment.

If the offender handles the violation recorded by the traffic technical monitoring equipment at a place other than the place where the violation occurred (hereinafter referred to as the place of handling), the traffic management department of the public security organ at the place of handling may assist the traffic management department of the public security organ at the place where the violation occurred to investigate the facts of the violation, serve legal documents on behalf of the offender, and perform the penalty notification procedure on behalf of the offender. The traffic management department of the public security organ at the place where the violation occurred shall make a penalty decision in accordance with the standards of the place where the violation occurred.

If the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle has any objection to the facts of the violation recorded by the traffic technical monitoring equipment, he or she may submit it to the traffic management department of the public security organ through the website of the traffic management department of the public security organ, the mobile Internet application program, or the window for handling the violation. The traffic management department of the public security organ at the place of handling shall notify the traffic management department of the public security organ at the place where the violation occurred through the road traffic violation information management system on the same day after receiving the application from the party concerned. The traffic management department of the public security organ at the place where the violation occurred shall review it within five days. If the objection is established, it shall be eliminated; if the objection is not established, the party concerned shall be informed.

Article 6 Where a warning, fine or temporary suspension of a motor vehicle driver's license is imposed on an offender, the penalty decision shall be made by the traffic management department of the public security organ at or above the county level.

Where a motor vehicle driver's license is revoked, the penalty decision shall be made by the traffic management department of the public security organ of a city with districts.

Where administrative detention is imposed on an offender, the penalty decision shall be made by the county or city public security bureau, public security sub-bureau or public security organ equivalent to the county level.



Chapter III  Investigation and Evidence Collection

Section 1  General Provisions



Article 7 When investigating illegal acts, traffic police shall indicate their law enforcement identity.

When on duty, traffic police shall strictly implement safety protection regulations and pay attention to their own safety. There shall be no less than two people on duty on the road.

Article 8 Traffic police shall comprehensively, promptly and legally collect evidence that can prove the existence of illegal acts and the severity of illegal acts.

Article 9 When investigating illegal acts, traffic police shall check motor vehicle driver's licenses, vehicle registration certificates, motor vehicle license plates, inspection certificates, insurance certificates and other licenses and certificates as well as illegal information of motor vehicles and drivers. When investigating the illegal behavior of drivers of vehicles carrying explosives, flammable and explosive chemicals, and highly toxic, radioactive and other dangerous goods, other relevant documents and information shall also be checked.

Article 10 When checking the motor vehicle driver's license, the traffic police shall ask the driver's name, address, date of birth and check them with the content recorded on the driver's license; the appearance of the license holder shall be checked with the photo on the driver's license. If necessary, the driver may be required to produce his resident ID card for verification.

Article 11 Where administrative compulsory measures need to be taken during the investigation, they shall be implemented in accordance with laws, regulations, these regulations and other relevant national regulations.

Article 12 Where the traffic police illegally park a motor vehicle without the driver at the scene, the illegal parking notice shall be posted on the side door glass of the motor vehicle or the seat of the motorcycle, and relevant evidence shall be fixed by taking photos or videos.

Article 13 Where other illegal behaviors are found in the investigation of the offender, while making a decision on the handling of his road traffic safety violations in accordance with the law, the case shall be transferred to the unit with jurisdiction for handling in accordance with relevant regulations. If a crime is suspected, it shall be transferred to a criminal case or transferred to the competent authority or department with the power to handle it.

Article 14 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall accept the reported illegal acts and other cases transferred by the administrative department and handle them in accordance with the regulations.


Section 2 Traffic Technical Monitoring


Article 15 The traffic management department of the public security organ may use traffic technical monitoring equipment and law enforcement recording equipment to collect and fix evidence of illegal acts.

Traffic technical monitoring equipment and law enforcement recording equipment shall comply with national standards or industry standards. Traffic technical monitoring equipment that needs to be identified and inspected shall be identified and inspected before it can be used to collect and fix evidence of illegal acts.

Traffic technical monitoring equipment shall be regularly maintained, maintained and tested to keep its functions intact.

Article 16 The installation of traffic technical monitoring equipment shall follow the principles of science, standardization and rationality, and the location of the installation shall have traffic signals that clearly regulate the corresponding traffic behaviors.

The location of fixed traffic technical monitoring equipment shall be announced to the public.

Article 17 Speed ​​warning signs shall be set up on sections of roads where fixed traffic technical monitoring equipment is used to measure speed.

When mobile speed measuring equipment is used to measure speed, it shall be operated by traffic police. When a vehicle-mounted mobile speed measuring equipment is used, a standard police car shall also be used.

Article 18 The illegal behavior records collected by traffic technical monitoring equipment as the basis for handling shall clearly and accurately reflect the characteristics of the motor vehicle type, license plate, appearance, etc., as well as the time, place, and facts of the violation.

Article 19 Within five days after the traffic technical monitoring equipment collects the illegal behavior records, the traffic management department of the public security organ where the illegal behavior occurred shall review the record content and enter it into the road traffic violation information management system after the review is correct as evidence for punishing the illegal behavior.

Article 20 On the day after the illegal behavior information recorded by the traffic technical monitoring equipment is entered into the road traffic violation information management system, the traffic management department of the public security organ where the illegal behavior occurred and the motor vehicle registration place shall provide inquiries to the public. The traffic management department of the public security organ where the violation occurred shall, within five days after the violation information is entered into the road traffic violation information management system, notify the offender or the owner or manager of the violation time, place and facts through mobile Internet applications, mobile phone text messages or mailing, etc., in accordance with the contact information in the motor vehicle registration information, and inform them to accept the handling within 30 days.

The traffic management department of the public security organ shall confirm the contact information and legal document delivery method of the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle in writing when the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle handles the violation and traffic accidents, handles motor vehicle or driver's license business, and informs them that they can register or change the contact information and legal document delivery method through the website of the traffic management department of the public security organ, mobile Internet applications, etc.

Article 21 For the violation information recorded by the traffic technical monitoring equipment, if the actual driver can be identified after verification, the traffic management department of the public security organ may record it as the violation information of the actual driver in the road traffic violation information management system.

Article 22 Where the violation information recorded by traffic technical monitoring equipment or entered into the road traffic violation information management system has any of the following circumstances and has been verified, the traffic management department of the public security organ at the place where the violation occurred or the place where the motor vehicle was registered shall delete it within three days from the date of verification:

(i) Violations recorded by traffic technical monitoring equipment during the execution of emergency tasks by police cars, fire rescue vehicles, ambulances, and engineering rescue vehicles;

(ii) Violations recorded by traffic technical monitoring equipment during the period when the motor vehicle owner or manager provides a report to prove that the motor vehicle was stolen or robbed, or the motor vehicle license plate was used by others;

(iii) The offender or the motor vehicle owner or manager provides evidence Prove that the motor vehicle has committed an illegal act due to rescuing a distressed person or emergency avoidance;

(iv) Illegal acts recorded by traffic technical monitoring equipment that have been handled by traffic police on the scene;

(v) Illegal acts caused by inconsistent traffic signal instructions;

(vi) The illegal act record data collected by the traffic technical monitoring equipment as the basis for handling cannot clearly and accurately reflect the characteristics of the motor vehicle type, license plate, appearance, etc., as well as the time, place, and facts of the violation;

(vii) After comparing the illegal act photos recorded by the traffic technical monitoring equipment and the motor vehicle information registered in the road traffic violation information management system, it is confirmed that the recorded motor vehicle license plate information is wrong;

(viii) Other circumstances that should be eliminated.

Article 23. After verification, illegal act photos or videos and other materials provided by units or individuals can be used as evidence for punishment.

The review and entry requirements for illegal act photos or video materials reported by the masses shall refer to these regulations.



Chapter IV Application of Administrative Compulsory Measures


Article 24 Traffic management departments of public security organs and their traffic police may take the following administrative compulsory measures in accordance with the law during law enforcement:

(a) Detaining vehicles;

(b) Detaining motor vehicle driver's licenses;

(c) Towing motor vehicles;

(d) Testing the content of alcohol, psychotropic drugs and narcotic drugs under state control in the body;

(e) Confiscating items;

(f) Other administrative compulsory measures prescribed by laws and regulations.

Article 25 The following procedures shall be followed when taking administrative compulsory measures as provided for in Items (1), (2), (4) and (5) of Article 24 of these Regulations:

(1) Orally inform the offender or the owner or manager of the basic facts of the illegal act, the type of administrative compulsory measures to be taken, the basis and the rights they enjoy according to law;

(2) Listen to the statements and defenses of the parties concerned. If the facts, reasons or evidence put forward by the parties concerned are established, they shall be adopted;

(3) Prepare an administrative compulsory measure certificate and inform the parties concerned to go to the designated place to accept the processing within 15 days;

(4) The administrative compulsory measure certificate shall be signed by the parties concerned, signed or stamped by the traffic police, and stamped with the seal of the traffic management department of the public security organ; if the parties concerned refuse to sign, the traffic police shall indicate this on the administrative compulsory measure certificate;

(5) The administrative compulsory measure certificate shall be delivered to the parties concerned on the spot; if the parties concerned refuse to accept it, the traffic police shall indicate this on the administrative compulsory measure certificate, which shall be deemed as delivery.

If administrative compulsory measures are taken on the spot, the traffic police shall report to the person in charge of the traffic management department of the public security organ to which they belong within 24 hours and complete the approval procedures. If the person in charge of the traffic management department of the public security organ believes that administrative compulsory measures should not be taken, they shall be lifted immediately.

Article 26 The administrative compulsory measures certificate shall state the basic information of the party concerned, vehicle license plate number, vehicle type, illegal facts, type and basis of administrative compulsory measures, specific location and time limit for acceptance, name of the decision-making authority, and the administrative reconsideration and administrative litigation rights enjoyed by the party concerned in accordance with the law.

Article 27 Vehicles shall be detained in accordance with the law if any of the following circumstances occurs:

(i) A motor vehicle driving on the road does not display a motor vehicle license plate, does not place a qualified inspection mark or insurance mark, or does not carry a motor vehicle driving license or driver's license;

(ii) A motor vehicle registration certificate, license plate, driving license, qualified inspection mark, insurance mark, driver's license, or a motor vehicle registration certificate, license plate, driving license, qualified inspection mark, insurance mark of another vehicle is suspected of being forged, altered, or used;

(iii) A motor vehicle traffic accident liability compulsory insurance is not purchased in accordance with national regulations;

(iv) A highway passenger vehicle or freight motor vehicle is overloaded;

(v) A motor vehicle is suspected of being stolen or robbed;

(vi) A motor vehicle is suspected of being assembled or reaching the scrap standard;

(vii) A motor vehicle transports highly toxic chemicals by road without applying for a "Highway Transport Permit for Highly Toxic Chemicals";

(viii) A non-motor vehicle driver refuses to accept a fine.

In the event of a road traffic accident, the accident vehicle may be detained in accordance with the law for the purpose of collecting evidence.

Article 28 Traffic police shall hand over the detained vehicle to the traffic management department of the public security organ to which it belongs within 24 hours after detaining the vehicle.

If the traffic management department of the public security organ detains a vehicle, it shall not detain the goods carried by the vehicle. The parties shall be notified to handle the goods carried by the vehicle by themselves. If the parties are unable to handle or do not handle the goods by themselves, they shall be registered and properly kept. For items that are easy to rot, damage, or lose or other items that do not meet the storage conditions, they may be sold or auctioned after taking photos or videos with the approval of the head of the traffic management department of the public security organ at or above the county level. The proceeds from the sale or auction shall be handled in accordance with relevant regulations.

Article 29 For road passenger vehicles that carry more passengers than the approved number of passengers and freight motor vehicles that carry more than the approved load, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall eliminate the illegal status in accordance with the following provisions:

(i) If the offender can eliminate the illegal status by himself, he shall transfer the overloaded passengers and unload the overloaded goods by himself under the supervision of the traffic management department of the public security organ;

(ii) If the offender cannot eliminate the illegal status by himself, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall promptly notify the relevant departments to contact for transfer of the overloaded passengers; the overloaded goods shall be unloaded at the designated site, and the offender shall sign a custody contract for the unloaded goods with the custodian of the designated site.

The cost of eliminating the illegal status shall be borne by the offender. After the illegal status is eliminated, the detained motor vehicle shall be returned immediately.

Article 30 For detained vehicles, after the relevant certificates or procedures accepted by the parties or provided or reissued are verified, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall return them in a timely manner in accordance with the law.

The time for verification by the traffic management department of the public security organ shall not exceed ten days; if an extension is required, it may be extended to fifteen days with the approval of the person in charge of the traffic management department of the public security organ at or above the county level.

The person or the owner or manager shall provide proof of the legal origin of the detained vehicle, complete the relevant procedures, or accept the handling date.

If a road traffic accident occurs and a vehicle needs to be detained for evidence collection, the detention period shall be implemented in accordance with the relevant provisions of the "Road Traffic Accident Handling Procedures".

Article 31 In any of the following circumstances, the motor vehicle driver's license shall be detained in accordance with the law:

(a) Driving a motor vehicle after drinking;

(b) Handing over a motor vehicle to a person who does not have a motor vehicle driver's license or whose motor vehicle driver's license has been revoked or temporarily detained;

(c) Driving a motor vehicle at a speed exceeding 50% of the prescribed speed;

(d) Driving a motor vehicle suspected of being assembled or reaching the scrap standard on the road;

(e) Accumulating 12 points in a scoring cycle.

Article 32 Traffic police shall hand over the detained motor vehicle driver's license to the traffic management department of the public security organ to which it belongs within 24 hours after detaining the motor vehicle driver's license.

If a person has any of the circumstances listed in Items (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Article 31 of these Regulations, his/her motor vehicle driver's license shall be detained until the date of the penalty decision; if the motor vehicle driver's license is detained before the penalty decision takes effect, one day of detention shall be deducted from the temporary detention period. If only a fine is imposed on the offender, the motor vehicle driver's license shall be returned immediately after the fine is paid. If a person has any of the circumstances listed in Item (5) of Article 31 of these Regulations, his/her motor vehicle driver's license shall be detained until the date of passing the test.

Article 33 If a person violates the parking and temporary parking regulations of motor vehicles and the driver is not at the scene or refuses to leave immediately even if he/she is at the scene, thereby obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, the traffic management department of the public security organ and its traffic police may tow the motor vehicle to a place that does not obstruct traffic or to a place designated by the traffic management department of the public security organ.

If a motor vehicle is towed, the traffic police on the scene shall fix the illegal facts and evidence by taking photos or recording videos.

Article 34 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall make public the inquiry telephone number for towing motor vehicles and clearly indicate it by setting up special signs for towing motor vehicles or inform the parties in other ways. The parties may inquire by phone about the place, deadline and parking location of the towed motor vehicle for handling.

Article 35 The alcohol content in the body of the vehicle driver shall be tested if he/she is in any of the following circumstances:

(i) He/she objects to the alcohol content test result of the breathalyzer test and raises it on the spot;

(ii) He/she is suspected of driving under the influence of alcohol and causing a traffic accident;

(iii) He/she is suspected of driving under the influence of alcohol;

(iv) He/she refuses to cooperate with the breathalyzer test and other methods.

If the vehicle driver has no objection to the result of the breathalyzer test, he/she shall sign to confirm. Any objection raised afterwards shall not be accepted.

If the vehicle driver is suspected of driving the vehicle after taking or injecting drugs or taking psychotropic drugs or narcotic drugs controlled by the state, the vehicle driver shall be tested for drug use in accordance with the "Drug Use Testing Procedure Regulations" and his/her family shall be notified, except when it is impossible to notify.

For those who lose control of their behavior after drinking or taking drugs or refuse to cooperate with the inspection and testing, restraint belts or police ropes and other restraining police equipment may be used.

Article 36 The alcohol content test of a vehicle driver shall be carried out in accordance with the following procedures:

(i) Two traffic policemen or one traffic policeman leading police auxiliary personnel shall take the vehicle driver to a medical institution to extract blood samples, or a forensic doctor or other qualified personnel shall extract blood samples on site;

(ii) The traffic management department of the public security organ shall send the blood sample to a qualified unit or institution for inspection within five days after the blood sample is extracted, and inform the vehicle driver in writing within five days after receiving the inspection results.

When inspecting the alcohol content of a vehicle driver, his family members shall be notified, except when it is impossible to notify.

If the vehicle driver has any objection to the inspection results, he may apply for re-inspection within three days from the date of receipt of the inspection results.

If any of the following circumstances exists, a re-inspection shall be conducted:

(i) The inspection procedure is illegal or violates relevant professional and technical requirements, which may affect the correctness of the inspection results;

(ii) The inspection unit or institution or the inspector does not have the corresponding qualifications and conditions;

(iii) The inspection results are obviously insufficient;

(iv) The inspector deliberately makes a false inspection;

(v) The inspector should recuse himself but does not;

(vi) The inspection materials are false or contaminated;

(vii) Other circumstances that require re-inspection.

If the circumstances do not meet the requirements of the preceding paragraph, a decision not to allow re-inspection shall be made with the approval of the head of the traffic management department of the public security organ at or above the county level, and the applicant shall be notified in writing within three days from the date of the decision.

For re-inspection, the public security organ shall appoint or hire another inspector.

Article 37  For illegal installation of alarms, sign lights or power devices on bicycles and tricycles, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall forcibly dismantle and confiscate them, and impose penalties in accordance with the law.

If the traffic police confiscates illegal devices on the spot, they shall hand over the confiscated items to the traffic management department of the public security organ to which they belong within 24 hours.

Except for keeping them as evidence, the confiscated items shall be destroyed according to law after approval by the traffic management department of the public security organ at or above the county level.

Article 38 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall confiscate and compulsorily scrap the assembled or scrapped motor vehicles detained by the traffic management department of the public security organ at or above the county level.

Article 39 Anyone who forges, alters or uses forged or altered motor vehicle registration certificates, license plates, driving licenses, inspection certificates, insurance certificates and driver's licenses shall be confiscated and destroyed after punishment according to law.

Anyone who uses the motor vehicle registration certificates, license plates, driving licenses, inspection certificates and insurance certificates of other vehicles shall be confiscated and transferred to the vehicle management office at the place where the motor vehicle is registered after punishment according to law.

Article 40 For those who plant trees or other plants on both sides of the road or set up billboards or pipelines, which block street lights, traffic lights, traffic signs, and obstruct safe sight distance, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall serve a notice of removing obstructions to the offender, informing him of the deadline for performance and the consequences of non-performance. If the offender refuses to perform within the prescribed time limit, he shall be punished in accordance with the law and forced to remove the obstruction.

Article 41 For forced removal of obstructions, the traffic management department of the public security organ and its traffic police may implement it on the spot. If it cannot be implemented on the spot, it shall be implemented in accordance with the following procedures:

(I) With the approval of the head of the traffic management department of the public security organ at or above the county level, it may entrust or organize a unit with no interest to forcibly remove the obstruction;

(II) When implementing forced removal of obstructions, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall send personnel to the scene for supervision.



Chapter V Administrative Penalties

Section 1 Decision on Administrative Penalties


Article 42 Traffic police shall verbally inform the basic facts and basis of the illegal behavior discovered on the spot, give the offender an oral warning, and release him after correcting the illegal behavior, if they believe that the violation is minor and does not affect road traffic and safety.

The traffic management departments of the public security organs of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government may determine the specific scope and implementation methods of applying oral warnings based on actual conditions.

Article 43 Simplified procedures may be applied to the punishment of warnings or fines of less than 200 yuan for offenders.

General procedures shall be applied to the punishment of fines of more than 200 yuan (not included) or temporary seizure or revocation of motor vehicle driving licenses for offenders. If no administrative compulsory measures are required, the on-site traffic police shall collect and fix relevant evidence and prepare a notice of handling illegal behavior. Among them, if the offender is fined more than 200 yuan (not included) alone, it can be quickly handled by simplifying the evidence collection method and review and approval procedures.

If the offender is punished with administrative detention, it shall be implemented in accordance with the "Procedures for Handling Administrative Cases by Public Security Organs".

Article 44 If the simplified procedure is applied, it may be made by a traffic policeman and shall be implemented in accordance with the following procedures:

(i) Orally inform the offender of the basic facts of the illegal behavior, the proposed administrative punishment, the basis and the rights he enjoys according to law;

(ii) Listen to the offender's statement and defense. If the facts, reasons or evidence put forward by the offender are established, they shall be adopted;

(iii) Prepare a simplified procedure penalty decision;

(iv) The penalty decision shall be signed by the person being punished, signed or stamped by the traffic police, and stamped with the seal of the traffic management department of the public security organ; if the person being punished refuses to sign, the traffic police shall indicate it on the penalty decision;

(v) The penalty decision shall be delivered to the person being punished on the spot; if the person being punished refuses to accept it, the traffic police shall indicate it on the penalty decision, which shall be deemed to be served.

The traffic police shall file the simplified procedure penalty decision with the traffic management department of the public security organ to which they belong within two days.

Article 45 The written decision on penalty under simplified procedure shall state the basic information of the person being punished, the vehicle license plate number, the vehicle type, the facts of the violation, the basis for the penalty, the content of the penalty, the method of fulfillment, the deadline, the name of the penalty authority, and the administrative reconsideration and administrative litigation rights enjoyed by the person being punished in accordance with the law.

Article 46 The issuance of the notice on handling illegal behavior shall be implemented in accordance with the following procedures:

(i) Orally inform the offender of the basic facts of the illegal behavior;

(ii) Listen to the statement and defense of the offender. If the facts, reasons or evidence put forward by the offender are established, they shall be adopted;

(iii) Prepare the notice on handling illegal behavior and notify the party concerned to accept the handling within 15 days;

(iv) The notice on handling illegal behavior shall be signed by the offender, signed or stamped by the traffic police, and stamped with the seal of the traffic management department of the public security organ; if the party concerned refuses to sign, the traffic police shall indicate it on the notice on handling illegal behavior;

(v) The notice on handling illegal behavior shall be delivered to the party concerned on the spot; if the party concerned refuses to accept it, the traffic police shall indicate it on the notice on handling illegal behavior, which shall be deemed as delivery.

Traffic police shall file the notice of handling illegal behavior with the traffic management department of the public security organ to which they belong within 24 hours.

Article 47 The notice of handling illegal behavior shall state the basic information of the party concerned, vehicle license plate number, vehicle type, illegal facts, specific location and time limit for receiving handling, name of the notifying agency, etc.

Article 48 When a penalty decision is made in accordance with the general procedure, two or more traffic police officers shall implement it in accordance with the following procedures:

(i) Investigate the facts of the violation, inquire the party concerned about the basic circumstances of the violation, and make a record; if the party concerned refuses to accept the questioning, sign or stamp, the traffic police shall indicate this in the record;

(ii) Inform the party concerned of the facts, reasons and basis of the proposed administrative penalty in written form or in the form of a record, and inform him of the rights he enjoys according to law;

(iii) Review the party concerned’s statements and defenses, and the review results shall be noted in the record;

(iv) Prepare an administrative penalty decision;

(v) The administrative penalty decision shall be signed by the person being punished and stamped with the seal of the traffic management department of the public security organ; if the person being punished refuses to sign, the traffic police shall indicate this in the penalty decision;

(vi) The administrative penalty decision shall be delivered to the person being punished on the spot; if the person being punished refuses to accept it, the traffic police shall indicate this in the penalty decision, which shall be deemed as delivery; if the person being punished is not present, it shall be delivered in accordance with the relevant provisions of the "Procedures for Handling Administrative Cases by Public Security Organs".

Article 49 The written decision on administrative penalty shall state the basic information of the person being punished, the vehicle license plate number, the type of vehicle, the facts and evidence of the violation, the basis for the punishment, the content of the punishment, the method of fulfillment, the time limit, the name of the punishment authority, and the administrative reconsideration and administrative litigation rights enjoyed by the person being punished in accordance with the law.

Article 50 If a person has two or more violations, they can make a single written decision on administrative penalty if they are adjudicated separately and executed together.

If a person has only one violation and two or more types of penalties should be imposed in accordance with the law and two punishment subjects are involved, separate written decisions on administrative penalty shall be made.

Article 51 If the facts of the violation are clear and a fine is required to be imposed in accordance with the general procedure, a penalty decision shall be made within 24 hours from the date when the violator accepts the punishment; if a motor vehicle driver's license is temporarily detained, a penalty decision shall be made within three days from the date when the violator accepts the punishment; if a motor vehicle driver's license is revoked, a penalty decision shall be made within seven days from the date when the violator accepts the punishment or the hearing procedure ends. If the traffic accident constitutes a crime, a penalty decision shall be made promptly after the judgment of the People's Court.

Article 52 For the illegal acts recorded by traffic technical monitoring equipment, the parties shall promptly go to the traffic management department of the public security organ to accept the handling. If a warning or a fine of less than 200 yuan is imposed, the simplified procedure may be applied; if a fine of more than 200 yuan (not included) is imposed or the motor vehicle driver's license is revoked, the general procedure shall be applied.

Article 53 After receiving the notification of road traffic safety violations, the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle shall promptly go to the traffic management department of the public security organ to accept the handling. If the owner or manager of the motor vehicle hands over the motor vehicle to others to drive, the motor vehicle driver shall be notified to accept the handling within the time limit specified in Article 20 of these Regulations.

If the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle cannot accept the handling within 30 days, he or she may apply for an extension of the handling period. The extension period shall not exceed three months.

Article 54 Where a motor vehicle has more than five unhandled violations, and the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle fails to accept the handling within 30 days and does not apply for an extension of the handling, the traffic management department of the public security organ where the violation occurred shall inform the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle of the facts, reasons, basis and rights enjoyed by law of the proposed administrative penalty decision through mobile Internet applications, mobile phone text messages or mailing, etc., in accordance with the contact information in the filing information. If the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle fails to accept the handling within 30 days after the notification, the facts, reasons, basis, rights enjoyed by law of the proposed administrative penalty decision and the administrative penalty decision will be made in accordance with the law after the expiration of the announcement period may be notified by announcement. The announcement period is seven days.

If the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle makes a defense or accepts the handling, it shall be handled in accordance with Article 44 or Article 48 of these Regulations; if the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle fails to make a defense, the traffic management department of the public security organ may make an administrative penalty decision in accordance with the law and prepare an administrative penalty decision.

Article 55 The administrative penalty decision may be delivered by mail or electronically. If the mailing or electronic delivery is unsuccessful, the traffic management department of the public security organ may make an announcement for delivery, and the announcement period is sixty days.

Article 56 Electronic delivery can use mobile Internet applications, e-mails, mobile communications and other specific systems that can confirm that the recipient has received the delivery as the delivery medium. The delivery date is the date when the corresponding system of the traffic management department of the public security organ shows that the delivery is successful. If the date on which the recipient proves that the delivery has arrived in his specific system is inconsistent with the date on which the corresponding system of the traffic management department of the public security organ shows that the delivery is successful, the date on which the recipient proves that the delivery has arrived in his specific system shall prevail.

The announcement shall be made through the Internet Traffic Safety Comprehensive Service Management Platform, mobile Internet applications and other means. Delivery shall be deemed to have been made upon the expiration of the announcement period.

The content of the announcement shall avoid leaking personal privacy.

Article 57 When traffic police are on duty on the road and enforcing the law, they shall find If the offender or the owner or manager of a motor vehicle has a violation recorded by a traffic technical monitoring device and has not dealt with it within the prescribed time limit, the offender or the owner or manager of the motor vehicle shall be informed orally or in writing.

Article 58 The offender may handle the violation by himself through the self-service processing platform of the traffic management department of the public security organ.


Section 2  Execution of Administrative Penalties


Article 59 If a fine is imposed on a pedestrian, a passenger, or a non-motor vehicle driver, and the traffic police collects the fine on the spot, the traffic police shall indicate it in the simplified procedure penalty decision, and the person punished shall sign and confirm it. If the person punished refuses to sign, the traffic police shall indicate it in the penalty decision.

If the traffic police collects the fine on the spot in accordance with the law, they shall issue a fine receipt uniformly issued by the financial department of the province, autonomous region, or municipality directly under the Central Government; if they do not issue a fine receipt uniformly issued by the financial department of the province, autonomous region, or municipality directly under the Central Government, the party concerned has the right to refuse to pay the fine.

Article 60 Where a party fails to comply with an administrative penalty decision within the prescribed time limit, the traffic management department of the public security organ that made the administrative penalty decision may take the following measures:

(i) If the fine is not paid on time, an additional fine of 3% of the fine amount shall be imposed every day, and the total amount of the additional fine shall not exceed the fine amount;

(ii) Apply to the People's Court for compulsory execution.

Article 61 Where the traffic management department of the public security organ imposes a temporary detention or revocation of the motor vehicle driver's license on a motor vehicle driver outside its jurisdiction, the motor vehicle driver's license shall be transferred to the traffic management department of the public security organ at the place of issuance within 15 days from the date of the penalty decision.

Where the offender applies not to transfer the temporarily detained motor vehicle driver's license to the traffic management department of the public security organ at the place of issuance, it shall be approved and noted in the administrative penalty decision.

Article 62 Where a decision is made to administratively detain and impose a fine on an offender, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall inform the offender that he or she may entrust another person to pay the fine on his or her behalf.


Chapter VI Law Enforcement Supervision



Article 63 Traffic police shall dress in accordance with regulations, wear the badge of the people's police, carry the people's police certificate, maintain a neat appearance, behave in a dignified manner, and give commands in a standardized manner when on duty.

Traffic police shall use standardized and civilized law enforcement terms when investigating and handling illegal acts.

Article 64 Traffic police teams, vehicle management offices and key business positions under the traffic management departments of public security organs shall establish a system of on-duty police officers and legal officers to prevent and correct mistakes and improper behaviors in law enforcement.

Article 65 Traffic management departments of public security organs at all levels shall strengthen law enforcement supervision, establish law enforcement files of their units and their police officers, implement law enforcement quality assessment, law enforcement responsibility system and law enforcement fault investigation.

Law enforcement files can be electronic files or paper files.

Article 66 Traffic management departments of public security organs shall establish assessment and evaluation standards for traffic police on duty law enforcement in accordance with the law, shall not issue or issue fines in disguise, and shall not use the number of penalties as the basis for assessing the effectiveness of police law enforcement.


Chapter VII Other Provisions


Article 67  If a party is dissatisfied with the administrative compulsory measures taken or the administrative penalty decision made by the traffic management department of the public security organ, he or she may apply for administrative reconsideration or initiate administrative litigation in accordance with the law.

Article 68  The traffic management department of the public security organ shall use the road traffic violation information management system to manage the violation information. The recorded and processed traffic violation information shall be entered into the road traffic violation information management system in a timely manner.

Article 69  If the traffic management department of the public security organ has a record of a motor vehicle that is not in its jurisdiction, it shall transfer the violation information to the traffic management department of the public security organ where the motor vehicle is registered within the prescribed time limit after the violation information is entered into the road traffic violation information management system.

Article 70  If the traffic management department of the public security organ gives points or temporarily suspends, revokes or detains the motor vehicle driver's license for the violation of a motor vehicle driver outside its jurisdiction, it shall transfer the violation information to the traffic management department of the public security organ where the driver's license was issued within the prescribed time limit after the violation information is entered into the road traffic violation information management system.

Article 71 The traffic management department of the public security organ may establish a floating system with the insurance regulatory agency to link illegal acts with the compulsory motor vehicle traffic accident liability insurance premium rate.

Article 72 Where the motor vehicle owner is an organization, the traffic management department of the public security organ may notify the motor vehicle owner of illegal acts that seriously affect road traffic safety.

Article 73 Where a motor vehicle driver who is not in the jurisdiction applies to participate in full-score learning and examination at the place where the illegal act occurred or was handled, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall approve it, return the detained motor vehicle driver's license after passing the examination, and transfer the information of passing the examination to the traffic management department of the public security organ where the driver's license was issued.

The traffic management department of the public security organ where the driver's license was issued shall clear the accumulated points of the motor vehicle driver based on the transferred information.

Article 74 Where a motor vehicle registration is obtained by improper means such as deception or bribery, the motor vehicle registration certificate, license plate, and driving license shall be confiscated, and the motor vehicle registration shall be revoked by the traffic management department of the public security organ where the motor vehicle is registered.

If a driver obtains a driving license by fraud, bribery or other improper means, the motor vehicle driver's license shall be confiscated and the motor vehicle driving license shall be revoked by the traffic management department of the public security organ where the driver's license was issued.

If the registration of a motor vehicle or the motor vehicle driving license of a motor vehicle outside the jurisdiction needs to be revoked, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall promptly transfer the confiscated motor vehicle registration certificate, license plate, driving license or motor vehicle driving license and related evidence materials to the traffic management department of the public security organ where the motor vehicle is registered or the driving license is issued.

Article 75 The revocation of a motor vehicle registration or motor vehicle driving license shall be implemented in accordance with the following procedures:

(i) With the approval of the person in charge of the traffic management department of the municipal public security organ, a revocation decision shall be prepared and delivered to the party concerned;

(ii) The confiscated motor vehicle registration certificate, license plate, driving license or motor vehicle driving license and the revocation decision shall be transferred to the vehicle management office where the motor vehicle is registered or the driving license is issued for cancellation;

(iii) If it cannot be confiscated, it shall be invalidated by public announcement.

Article 76 The simplified procedure case file shall include the simplified procedure penalty decision. The case files of general procedures shall include the administrative compulsory measures certificate or the notice of handling illegal behavior, evidence materials, and the administrative penalty decision of the public security traffic management.

Other documents generated in the process of handling illegal behaviors shall be filed together in the case files.


Chapter VIII  Supplementary Provisions


Article 77 The meaning of the following terms in these Regulations:

(a) "Violator" refers to citizens, legal persons and other organizations that violate the provisions of road traffic safety laws and administrative regulations.

(b) "Traffic management departments of public security organs at or above the county level" refers to the traffic management departments of public security organs of the people's governments at or above the county level or the traffic management departments of public security organs at the same level. "Traffic management departments of public security organs of cities with districts" refers to the traffic management departments of public security organs of the people's governments of cities with districts or the traffic management departments of public security organs at the same level.

Article 78 Non-motor vehicle and pedestrian violations recorded by traffic technical monitoring equipment shall be handled in accordance with the procedures for handling motor vehicle violations in these Regulations.

Article 79 The traffic management departments of public security organs may keep the case files of illegal handling in the form of electronic files.

Article 80  The procedures for handling illegal acts not specified in these Regulations shall be implemented in accordance with the "Procedures for Handling Administrative Cases by Public Security Organs".

Article 81  The "above" and "below" mentioned in these Regulations include the number itself, unless otherwise specified.

The "two days", "three days", "five days", "seven days", "ten days" and "fifteen days" mentioned in these Regulations refer to working days, excluding holidays.

Article 82  The legal document templates required for the implementation of these Regulations shall be formulated by the Ministry of Public Security. If the Ministry of Public Security has not formulated templates, the traffic management departments of the public security organs of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government may formulate templates for other legal documents required for law enforcement.

Article 83  These Regulations shall come into force on April 1, 2009. The "Procedures for Handling Road Traffic Safety Violations" (Order No. 69 of the Ministry of Public Security) promulgated on April 30, 2004 shall be repealed at the same time. After the entry into force of these Regulations, if there is any inconsistency between the previous relevant regulations and these Regulations, these Regulations shall prevail.

