Google translated version of https://www.gov.cn/gongbao/content/2009/content_1239237.htm

Order of the Ministry of Public Security of the People's Republic of China

No. 104

The "Procedures for Handling Road Traffic Accidents" have been adopted at the Minister's Office Meeting of the Ministry of Public Security on July 11, 2008, and are hereby promulgated for implementation on January 1, 2009.

Minister Meng Jianzhu


August 17, 2008

Procedures for Handling Road Traffic Accidents

Chapter I General Provisions

Article 1 These Regulations are formulated in accordance with the "Road Traffic Safety Law of the People's Republic of China" and its implementing regulations and other relevant laws and regulations in order to standardize the procedures for handling road traffic accidents, ensure that the traffic management departments of public security organs perform their duties in accordance with the law, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of the parties involved in road traffic accidents.

Article 2 The traffic management departments of public security organs shall follow the principles of fairness, openness, convenience and efficiency in handling road traffic accidents.

Article 3 Traffic police shall obtain the corresponding level of qualifications for handling road traffic accidents when handling road traffic accidents.

Chapter II Jurisdiction

Article 4 Road traffic accidents shall be under the jurisdiction of the traffic management departments of county-level public security organs where they occur. If there is no county-level public security traffic management department, the traffic management department of the public security organ of the city shall have jurisdiction.

Article 5: If a road traffic accident occurs in more than two jurisdictions, the traffic management department of the public security organ at the place where the accident started shall have jurisdiction.

If there is a dispute over jurisdiction, the common higher-level public security traffic management department shall designate jurisdiction. Before designating jurisdiction, the public security traffic management department that first discovers or first receives the alarm shall first rescue the injured and conduct preliminary on-site processing.

Article 6: When necessary, the higher-level public security traffic management department may handle the road traffic accident under the jurisdiction of the lower-level public security traffic management department, or designate the lower-level public security traffic management department to transfer the case to other lower-level public security traffic management departments within a limited time.

If the jurisdiction of the case is transferred, the handling time limit shall be calculated from the date of transfer of the case.

Article 7: If a road traffic accident occurs between personnel and vehicles of the military and armed police forces, it shall be handled in accordance with these regulations. If it is necessary to impose administrative penalties or pursue criminal responsibility on active military personnel, it shall be transferred to the relevant departments of the military and armed police forces.

Chapter III Reporting and Acceptance

Article 8 If a road traffic accident occurs under any of the following circumstances, the parties shall protect the scene and report to the police immediately:

(1) Death or injury caused;

(2) Property damage accident occurs, and the parties have disputes over the facts or causes, or although there is no dispute over the facts or causes, no agreement on compensation has been reached after negotiation;

(3) The motor vehicle has no license plate, no inspection certificate mark, and no insurance mark;

(4) The vehicle carries explosives, flammable and explosive chemicals, and toxic, radioactive, corrosive, infectious pathogens and other dangerous goods;

(5) Collision with buildings, public facilities or other facilities;

(6) The driver does not have a valid motor vehicle driver's license;

(7) The driver is suspected of drinking, taking psychotropic drugs or narcotic drugs controlled by the state;

(8) The parties cannot move the vehicle by themselves. If a property damage accident occurs and any of the circumstances in the second to fifth items of the preceding paragraph exists, and the vehicle can be moved, the parties can, after calling the police, take photos of the scene or mark the parking position on the principle of ensuring safety, and move the vehicle to a place that does not hinder traffic and wait for processing.

Article 9 If a road traffic accident occurs on a highway, the driver must immediately organize the evacuation of the people on the vehicle to a safe place outside the road on the principle of ensuring safety to avoid secondary accidents. If the driver has died or is injured and unable to move due to a road traffic accident, other people on the vehicle should organize evacuation on their own.
Article 10: When the public security organs and their traffic management departments receive a road traffic accident report, they shall record the following information:

(i) The reporting method, reporting time, name of the reporter, contact information, and if the report is made by telephone, the reporting telephone number shall also be recorded;

(ii) The time and location of the road traffic accident;

(iii) Casualties;

(iv) Vehicle type, vehicle license plate, whether dangerous goods are carried, types of dangerous goods, etc.;

(v) In the case of suspected hit-and-run, the model, color, characteristics of the vehicle causing the accident, its direction of escape, and the physical characteristics of the driver who escaped shall also be inquired and recorded.

If the reporter does not give his name, it shall be recorded. If the reporter does not want to disclose his name, it shall be kept confidential.

Article 11: After receiving a road traffic accident report or a police dispatch order, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall immediately send traffic police to the scene in accordance with regulations. If there are casualties or other emergency situations, the emergency, medical, fire and other relevant departments shall be notified in a timely manner. In the event of an accident with more than three deaths or other road traffic accidents with major impacts, the accident shall be reported immediately to the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level, and reported to the local people's government through the public security organ to which it belongs; if it involves operating vehicles, the relevant administrative departments of the local people's government shall be notified; if it involves explosives, flammable and explosive chemicals, and dangerous goods such as toxic, radioactive, corrosive, and infectious pathogens, it shall be reported to the local people's government immediately through the public security organ to which it belongs, and the relevant departments shall be informed for timely handling; if it causes damage to roads, power supply, communications and other facilities, the relevant departments shall be informed for timely handling.
Article 12 If the parties fail to call the police at the scene of the road traffic accident and request the traffic management department of the public security organ to handle it afterwards, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall record it in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of these Regulations and make a decision on whether to accept it within 3 days. If it is verified that the fact of the road traffic accident exists, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall accept it and inform the parties; if it is unable to prove the fact of the road traffic accident after verification, or it does not fall under the jurisdiction of the traffic management department of the public security organ, the parties shall be informed in writing and the reasons shall be stated.

Chapter IV Self-negotiation and simplified procedures

Article 13: If a motor vehicle or a motor vehicle or a non-motor vehicle has a property damage accident, and the parties have no dispute over the facts and causes, they may negotiate and deal with the damage compensation on their own. If the vehicle can be moved, the parties shall take photos of the scene or mark the location of the accident vehicle on the principle of ensuring safety, and then leave the scene immediately, move the vehicle to a place that does not hinder traffic, and then negotiate.

If a non-motor vehicle or a pedestrian has a property damage accident, and the basic facts and causes are clear, the parties shall leave the scene first, and then negotiate and deal with the damage compensation.

For those who should leave the scene on their own but fail to do so, the traffic police shall order the parties to leave the scene; if traffic congestion is caused, the driver shall be fined 200 yuan; if the driver has other road traffic safety violations, he shall be punished in accordance with the law.

Article 14: If the parties reach an agreement through self-negotiation under the circumstances specified in Article 13 of these Regulations, they shall fill in the road traffic accident damage compensation agreement and sign it together. The content of the damage compensation agreement includes the time, location, weather, name of the parties, motor vehicle driver's license number, contact information, motor vehicle type and license plate, insurance certificate number, accident form, collision location, compensation liability and other contents.

Article 15: For property damage accidents that only cause minor injuries to people or have one of the circumstances specified in the second to eighth items of the first paragraph of Article 8 of these Regulations, the traffic management department of the public security organ may apply simplified procedures to handle them, except for those suspected of traffic accident crimes.

If simplified procedures are applied, one traffic policeman may handle it.

Article 16: When traffic police apply simplified procedures to handle road traffic accidents, they shall, after fixing the evidence at the scene, order the parties to evacuate the scene and restore traffic. If they refuse to evacuate the scene, they shall be forced to evacuate; if the parties cannot move the vehicle by themselves, the traffic police shall move the vehicle to a place that does not hinder traffic. If one of the circumstances of the sixth and seventh items of the first paragraph of Article 8 of these Regulations exists, it shall be handled in accordance with Article 104 of the Regulations for the Implementation of the Road Traffic Safety Law.
After leaving the scene, the traffic police shall determine and record the time, location, weather, names of the parties, motor vehicle driver's license numbers, contact information, motor vehicle types and license plates, insurance certificate numbers, traffic accident forms, collision sites, etc. of the road traffic accident based on the evidence fixed at the scene and the accounts of the parties and witnesses, and determine the responsibilities of the parties based on the role played by the parties' behaviors in the occurrence of the road traffic accident and the severity of the fault, and prepare a road traffic accident identification certificate for the parties to sign.

Article 17 Where the parties jointly request mediation, the traffic police shall mediate on the spot and record the mediation results on the road traffic accident identification certificate, which shall be signed by the parties and delivered to the parties.

Article 18 Where any of the following circumstances occurs, mediation shall not be applicable, and the traffic police may deliver the road traffic accident identification certificate to the parties after stating the relevant circumstances on the road traffic accident identification certificate:

(i) The parties have objections to the road traffic accident identification;

(ii) The parties refuse to sign the road traffic accident identification certificate;

(iii) The parties do not agree to mediation.

Chapter V Investigation

Section 1 General Provisions

Article 19 Except for simplified procedures, when the traffic management department of the public security organ conducts an investigation into a road traffic accident, there shall be no less than 2 traffic police.

During the investigation, the traffic police shall show the "People's Police Certificate" to the person under investigation, inform the person under investigation of the rights and obligations they enjoy according to law, and send a contact card to the person concerned. The contact card shall state the name, office address, contact information, supervision telephone number, etc. of the traffic police.

Article 20 When investigating a road traffic accident, the traffic police shall collect evidence objectively, comprehensively, promptly and legally.

Section 2 On-site disposal and on-site investigation

Article 21 After the traffic police arrive at the scene of the accident, they shall immediately carry out the following work:

(I) Demarcate the warning area, place luminous or reflective cones and warning signs at a safe distance, and designate a special person to be responsible for on-site traffic command and guidance to maintain good road traffic order. If traffic is interrupted due to a road traffic accident or traffic control measures such as closing roads are required for on-site handling and investigation, diversion should be organized in advance in the direction of the accident scene, and detour signs should be placed to avoid traffic jams.
(ii) Organize rescue of injured persons.
(iii) Direct investigation and rescue vehicles to park in a location convenient for rescue and investigation, turn on the warning lights, and turn on the hazard warning flashers and clearance lights at night.
(iv) Find the parties and witnesses of the road traffic accident and control the suspects.
Article 22 If a road traffic accident causes death, it shall be confirmed by emergency and medical personnel, and a death certificate shall be issued by a medical institution. The body shall be stored in a funeral service unit or a medical institution with conditions for body storage.
Article 23 Traffic police shall investigate the accident scene and do the following work:

(i) Investigate the accident scene, identify the accident vehicle, parties involved, roads and their spatial relationship and the weather conditions at the time of the accident;

(ii) Fix, extract or preserve the evidence materials at the scene;

(iii) Find the parties involved and witnesses for questioning and make interrogation records;

(iv) Other investigation work.

Article 24 Traffic police shall investigate the scene of a road traffic accident in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations and standards, take photos of the scene, draw a scene map, extract traces and physical evidence, and make a scene investigation record. If a road traffic accident occurs with the death of more than three people, the scene shall be filmed.

The scene map and scene investigation record shall be signed by the traffic police, parties involved or witnesses who participated in the investigation. If the parties involved or witnesses refuse to sign or are unable to sign, or if there are no witnesses, it shall be recorded.

Article 25 If traces or evidence may be lost due to time, location, weather and other reasons, the traffic police shall fix, extract or preserve them in time.

If the driver of a vehicle is suspected of drinking alcohol or taking psychotropic drugs or narcotic drugs controlled by the state, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall promptly draw blood or extract urine samples in accordance with the "Procedures for Handling Road Traffic Safety Violations" and send them to qualified institutions for inspection; if the driver of the vehicle dies on the spot, blood samples shall be drawn for inspection in a timely manner.

Article 26 Traffic police shall check the identity documents, motor vehicle driver's license, motor vehicle registration certificate, insurance signs, etc. of the parties involved; suspects of traffic accidents may be summoned according to law.

Article 27 After the traffic police complete the investigation of the accident scene, they shall count and register the items left at the scene, quickly organize the cleaning of the scene, and restore traffic as soon as possible.

If the items left at the scene can be returned on the spot, they shall be returned on the spot and records shall be made; if the owner cannot be determined on the spot, they shall be properly kept and returned in a timely manner after the owner is determined.

Article 28 The traffic management department of the public security organ may detain the accident vehicle and motor vehicle registration certificate for the need to collect evidence, and issue a certificate of administrative compulsory measures. The detained vehicle and motor vehicle registration certificate shall be properly kept.
The traffic management department of the public security organ shall not detain the goods carried by the accident vehicle. After verifying the weight, volume and loss of the goods, the motor vehicle driver or the owner of the goods shall be notified to deal with it on their own. If it is impossible to notify the parties or the parties do not deal with it on their own, it shall be handled in accordance with the relevant provisions of the "Procedures for Handling Administrative Cases by Public Security Organs".

Article 29: Due to the need to collect evidence, the traffic management department of the public security organ may detain items related to the accident and issue a list of seized items in duplicate, one copy to the holder of the seized items and one copy attached to the file. The seized items shall be properly kept.

The detention period shall not exceed 30 days. If the case is serious and complicated, it may be extended for 30 days with the approval of the head of the public security organ at the same level or the head of the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level; unless otherwise provided by laws and regulations.

Article 30: If the traffic management department of the public security organ believes that it is not a road traffic accident after on-site investigation, it shall notify the parties in writing and transfer the case to the relevant departments or inform the parties of the handling method.
If the traffic management department of the public security organ finds that the party is suspected of committing a traffic accident crime during the investigation, it shall file a case for investigation in accordance with the "Procedures for Handling Criminal Cases by Public Security Organs". If it is found that the party is suspected of other illegal crimes, it shall be transferred to the relevant departments in a timely manner, and the transfer shall not affect the investigation and handling of the accident.

Article 31 If a vehicle insured with compulsory motor vehicle traffic accident liability insurance is involved in a road traffic accident, and the insurance company needs to pay for the rescue of the injured, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall notify the insurance company in writing.

If the rescue of the injured requires the road traffic accident social assistance fund to advance the expenses, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall notify the road traffic accident social assistance fund management agency in writing.

Section 3 Traffic accident hit-and-run investigation

Article 32 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall formulate a traffic accident hit-and-run case investigation plan based on the jurisdiction area and road conditions.

After a traffic accident hit-and-run case occurs, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall promptly activate the investigation plan and arrange for interception and investigation based on the statements of the parties, witness testimony, traces at the scene of the traffic accident, and other clues such as remains.
Article 33 The traffic management department of the public security organ at the place where the accident occurred may request assistance in the investigation and report traffic accidents by issuing a notice of assistance in the investigation and public announcement.

Fleeing vehicles or clues to detection. When issuing a joint investigation notice or announcing it to the public, the basic facts of the hit-and-run case, the situation, characteristics and escape direction of the hit-and-run vehicle shall be provided.

Article 34 The traffic management department of the public security organ that receives the joint investigation notice shall immediately arrange for interception or investigation. If a hit-and-run vehicle or a suspected vehicle is found, it shall be detained, the hit-and-run person or the suspect consistent with the joint investigation notice shall be summoned in accordance with the law, and the traffic management department of the public security organ at the scene of the incident shall be notified of the relevant situation in a timely manner. The traffic management department of the public security organ at the scene of the incident shall immediately send traffic police to handle the transfer.

Article 35 After the traffic management department of the public security organ seizes the hit-and-run vehicle, it shall issue a cancellation of the joint investigation notice according to the original scope.

Article 36 During the investigation of the hit-and-run case by the traffic management department of the public security organ, if the victim of the hit-and-run case and his family members ask the traffic management department of the public security organ about the investigation and handling of the case, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall inform them.

Section 4 Inspection and Identification

Article 37 Where inspection and identification are required, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall entrust a qualified identification institution to conduct the inspection and identification within 3 days from the date of completion of the on-site investigation. The autopsy of the body shall be entrusted within 3 days from the date of death.

Where inspection and identification are required after 3 days from the date of completion of the on-site investigation, approval shall be obtained from the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level.

The identification of mental illness shall be conducted by a hospital designated by the provincial people's government.

Article 38 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall agree with the inspection and identification institution on the deadline for completion of the inspection and identification, which shall not exceed 20 days. If it exceeds 20 days, approval shall be obtained from the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level, but the longest shall not exceed 60 days.

Article 39 The diagnosis certificate issued by a qualified doctor of a medical institution licensed by the health administrative department for the injured person in a road traffic accident may be used by the traffic management department of the public security organ as the basis for determining the degree of personal injury.

Article 40 The inspection of the body shall not be conducted in public. If the inspection requires the dissection of the body, the consent of the family members shall be obtained.
The autopsy of an unknown corpse shall be reported to the head of the public security organ at or above the county level or the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level for approval.

Article 41: After the examination of the corpse is completed, the family of the deceased shall be notified in writing to handle the funeral arrangements within 10 days. Failure to do so without a legitimate reason shall be recorded and approved by the head of the public security organ at or above the county level. The public security organ shall dispose of the corpse, and the cost of overdue storage shall be borne by the family of the deceased.

For an unknown corpse, the forensic doctor shall extract the personal identification specimen, take photos of the corpse, and collect relevant information. The traffic management department of the public security organ shall fill in the registration form for unknown corpse information and publish a notice for corpse identification in a newspaper at or above the prefecture-level city. If no one claims the corpse within 30 days after the publication, the head of the public security organ at or above the county level or the head of the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level shall approve the disposal of the corpse.

Article 42: The inspection and appraisal institution shall complete the inspection and appraisal within the agreed or prescribed period, and issue a written inspection and appraisal report, which shall be signed by the inspector and appraiser and stamped with the institution's seal. The inspection and appraisal report shall state the following items:

(i) The client;

(ii) The matters entrusted;

(iii) The relevant materials submitted;

(iv) The time of inspection and appraisal;

(v) The basis and conclusive opinions. If the conclusive opinions are reached through analysis, there shall be an explanation of the analysis process.

Article 43 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall deliver a copy of the inspection and appraisal report to the parties within 2 days from the date of receipt of the inspection and appraisal report.

If the parties have objections to the inspection and appraisal conclusions, they may apply for re-inspection and appraisal within 3 days from the date of delivery by the traffic management department of the public security organ. After approval by the head of the traffic management department of the county-level public security organ, re-inspection and appraisal shall be carried out. Re-inspection and appraisal shall be entrusted to another inspection and appraisal institution or the original inspection and appraisal institution shall appoint another appraiser. The traffic management department of the public security organ shall deliver a copy of the re-inspection and appraisal report to the parties within 2 days from the date of receipt of the re-inspection and appraisal report. Re-inspection and appraisal shall be limited to one time.
Article 44 Within 5 days from the date of the conclusion of the inspection and appraisal, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall notify the parties to collect the detained accident vehicle, motor vehicle driving license and seized items.

For the ownerless vehicle whose driver escapes or the vehicle that the party still does not collect after 30 days of notification, if the party still does not accept the handling after 3 months of announcement, the detained vehicle shall be handled in accordance with the law.

Chapter VI Determination and Review

Section 1 Determination of Road Traffic Accidents

Article 45 Determination of road traffic accidents shall be carried out in a legal procedure, clear facts, sufficient evidence, correct application of law and fair division of responsibilities.

Article 46 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall determine the responsibility of the parties based on the role of the parties' behavior in the occurrence of the road traffic accident and the severity of the fault.
(i) If a road traffic accident is caused by the fault of one party, the party shall bear full responsibility;

(ii) If a road traffic accident is caused by the fault of two or more parties, they shall bear primary responsibility, equal responsibility and secondary responsibility respectively according to the role of their behavior in the accident and the severity of their fault;

(iii) If none of the parties is at fault in causing the road traffic accident and it is a traffic accident, none of the parties shall be responsible.

If one party intentionally causes a road traffic accident, the other party shall not be responsible.

Provincial public security organs may formulate specific rules or standards for determining the responsibility for road traffic accidents in accordance with relevant laws and regulations.

Article 47 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall prepare a road traffic accident certificate within 10 days from the date of on-site investigation. In the case of hit-and-run, a road traffic accident certificate shall be prepared within 10 days after the accident vehicle and driver are seized. For those that require inspection and appraisal, a road traffic accident certificate shall be prepared within 5 days from the date of the conclusion of the inspection and appraisal.
In the event of a fatal accident, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall summon all parties to the scene before making a road traffic accident identification certificate, conduct an open investigation and obtain evidence. Evidence that witnesses request to remain confidential or involves state secrets, commercial secrets and personal privacy shall not be made public. If the parties are not present, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall record it.

Article 48 The road traffic accident identification certificate shall state the following:

(i) Basic information about the parties, vehicles, roads and traffic environment involved in the road traffic accident;

(ii) The course of the road traffic accident;

(iii) Evidence of the road traffic accident and analysis of the causes of the accident;

(iv) The fault and responsibility or accidental cause of the parties causing the road traffic accident;

(v) The name and date of the traffic management department of the public security organ that made the road traffic accident identification.

The road traffic accident identification certificate shall be signed or stamped by the police officer handling the case, stamped with the special seal of the traffic management department of the public security organ for handling road traffic accidents, and delivered to the parties separately, and inform the parties of their rights and time limits to apply to the traffic management department of the public security organ for review, mediation and directly file a civil lawsuit with the people's court.

Article 49: If a hit-and-run traffic accident has not been solved and the injured party requests a road traffic accident identification certificate, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall prepare a road traffic accident identification certificate within 10 days after receiving the written application from the party and deliver it to the injured party. The road traffic accident identification certificate shall state the time, place, victim's situation and facts obtained from the investigation of the accident. If there is evidence to prove that the victim is at fault, the victim's responsibility shall be determined; if there is no evidence to prove that the victim is at fault, the victim shall be determined to be not responsible.

Article 50: If the cause of a road traffic accident cannot be ascertained, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall issue a road traffic accident certificate stating the time, place, party's situation and facts obtained from the investigation of the road traffic accident and deliver it to the parties separately.

Section 2 Review

Article 51: If a party has any objection to the road traffic accident identification, it may submit a written review application to the traffic management department of the next higher public security organ within 3 days from the date of delivery of the road traffic accident identification certificate.

The review application shall state the request for review, its reasons and main evidence.
Article 52 The traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level shall make a decision on whether to accept the review application within 5 days after receiving the written review application from the parties. In any of the following circumstances, the review application shall not be accepted and the parties shall be notified in writing.

(i) Any party files a lawsuit with the People's Court and the court accepts it;

(ii) The People's Procuratorate approves the arrest of the suspect of traffic accident;

(iii) Road traffic accidents handled by simplified procedures;

(iv) Accidents that occur when vehicles are traveling outside the road.

If the traffic management department of the public security organ accepts the review application, it shall notify all parties in writing.

Article 53 The traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level shall review the following contents within 30 days from the date of accepting the review application and make a review conclusion:

(i) Whether the facts of the road traffic accident are clear, whether the evidence is sufficient, and whether the applicable law is correct;

(ii) Whether the division of responsibility for the road traffic accident is fair;

(iii) Whether the investigation and identification procedures of the road traffic accident are legal.

In principle, the review shall be conducted in written form. However, if the parties concerned request it or the traffic management department of the public security organ deems it necessary, the parties concerned may be summoned to the scene to listen to their opinions.

During the review period, if any party files a lawsuit with the People's Court regarding the accident and the court accepts it, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall terminate the review.

Article 54: If the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level deems that the facts of the original road traffic accident determination are unclear, the evidence is insufficient, the responsibility division is unfair, or the investigation and determination violate the statutory procedures, it shall make a review conclusion and order the original case-handling unit to re-investigate and determine.

If the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level deems that the facts of the original road traffic accident determination are clear, the evidence is sufficient, the application of the law is correct, the responsibility division is fair, and the investigation procedures are legal, it shall make a review conclusion to maintain the original road traffic accident determination.

Article 55: After the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level makes the review conclusion, it shall summon all parties concerned in the accident and announce the review conclusion on the spot. If the parties concerned are not present, the review conclusion shall be delivered to the parties concerned in other statutory forms.
The traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level shall conduct a review only once.

Article 56: After the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level makes a review conclusion ordering a re-identification, the original case-handling unit shall conduct a re-investigation in accordance with these regulations within 10 days, re-produce a road traffic accident identification certificate, and revoke the original road traffic accident identification certificate.

If the re-investigation requires inspection and appraisal, the original case-handling unit shall re-produce a road traffic accident identification certificate within 5 days from the date of the inspection and appraisal conclusion, and revoke the original road traffic accident identification certificate.

If the road traffic accident identification certificate is re-produced, the original case-handling unit shall deliver it to all parties and report it in writing to the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level for filing.

Chapter VII Penalty Execution

Article 57: The traffic management department of the public security organ shall impose penalties on the parties' road traffic safety violations in accordance with the law within 5 days from the date of making a road traffic accident identification.
Article 58: If a road traffic accident constitutes a crime and the driver's motor vehicle driver's license should be revoked according to law, the traffic management department of the municipal public security organ shall revoke the motor vehicle driver's license according to law after the people's court makes a guilty verdict; if there is also a situation of fleeing, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall also make a decision that the driver shall not obtain a motor vehicle driver's license again for life according to law.

Article 59: If a professional transportation unit causes two road traffic accidents with more than three deaths within 6 months, and the unit or the driver of the vehicle bears full or main responsibility for the accident, the traffic management department of the public security organ where the professional transportation unit is located shall, after approval by the traffic management department of the municipal public security organ, make a decision to order the elimination of safety hazards within a time limit, prohibit the motor vehicle that has not eliminated the safety hazards from driving on the road, and notify the relevant administrative departments of the people's government where the road traffic accident occurred and the transportation unit is located.

Chapter VIII Mediation of Damage Compensation

Article 60 If the parties have a dispute over the damage compensation for a road traffic accident and all parties unanimously request the traffic management department of the public security organ to mediate, they shall submit a written application to the traffic management department of the public security organ within 10 days from the date of receipt of the road traffic accident identification certificate or the review conclusion of the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level that maintains the original road traffic accident identification.

Article 61 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall conduct mediation of damage compensation for road traffic accidents in accordance with the principles of legality, fairness, voluntariness and timeliness, and in an open manner. Spectators are allowed to attend the mediation, except when the parties request that it not be made public.

Article 62 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall agree with the parties on the time and place of mediation and notify the parties 3 days before the mediation time. Oral notification shall be recorded in the mediation record. If the mediation participants cannot attend the mediation on time for some reason, they shall notify the traffic police in charge 1 day before the scheduled mediation time and request to change the mediation time.
Article 63 Persons participating in the mediation of damage compensation include:

(1) The parties involved in the road traffic accident and their agents;

(2) The owners or managers of the vehicles involved in the road traffic accident;

(3) Other persons that the traffic management department of the public security organ deems necessary to participate.

The agent shall produce a letter of authorization signed or stamped by the principal. The letter of authorization shall specify the matters and powers of entrustment.

When participating in the mediation, no more than 3 persons shall be present on one side.

Article 64 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall start the mediation on the following dates and prepare a mediation document on damage compensation for road traffic accidents or a mediation termination document on damage compensation for road traffic accidents within 10 days:

(1) If a person dies, from the date when the prescribed time for handling funeral matters ends;

(2) If a person is injured, from the date when treatment ends;

(3) If a person is disabled due to injury, from the date when the disability is determined;

(4) If property loss occurs, from the date when the loss is determined.

Article 65 Traffic police mediation of road traffic accident damage compensation shall be implemented in accordance with the following procedures:

(1) Inform all parties involved in the road traffic accident of their rights and obligations;

(2) Hear the requests of all parties involved;

(3) Determine the damage compensation liability borne by the parties based on the facts confirmed in the road traffic accident identification report and the provisions of Article 76 of the "Road Traffic Safety Law of the People's Republic of China";

(4) Calculate the amount of damage compensation and determine the proportion borne by each party. The standard of personal injury compensation shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the "Interpretation of the Supreme People's Court on Several Issues Concerning the Application of Law in the Trial of Personal Injury Compensation Cases". The cost of repairing property losses and the cost of discounted compensation shall be calculated according to the actual value or the assessment conclusion of the assessment agency.

Calculation;

(V) Determine the method and time limit for the performance of compensation.

Article 66: If an agreement is reached through mediation, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall prepare a mediation document on road traffic accident damage compensation on the spot, which shall be signed by all parties and delivered to each party separately.

The mediation document shall state the following contents:

(I) The basis for mediation;

(II) The basic facts and losses determined in the road traffic accident identification document;

(III) The items and amount of damages;

(IV) The liability and proportion of damages of each party;

(V) The method and time limit for the performance of compensation;

(VI) The date of mediation.

If the parties fail to reach an agreement through mediation, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall terminate the mediation and prepare a termination document for road traffic accident damage compensation mediation and deliver it to all parties.

Article 67: If any of the following circumstances occurs, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall terminate the mediation and record it:

(I) During the mediation period, one party files a civil lawsuit with the people's court;

(II) One party fails to participate in the mediation without a legitimate reason;

(III) One party withdraws from the mediation during the mediation process.

Chapter IX Handling of Foreign-Related Road Traffic Accidents

Article 68 Where a foreigner causes a road traffic accident within the territory of the People's Republic of China, in addition to the implementation of these Provisions, the relevant laws, regulations and rules on handling foreign-related cases shall also be implemented.

When handling a road traffic accident involving a foreigner, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall inform the parties of the rights and obligations of the parties in handling road traffic accidents as stipulated in the laws and regulations of my country.

Article 69 Where a foreigner causes a road traffic accident, the public security organ may, in accordance with the law, prohibit him from leaving the country before the handling is completed.

Article 70 Where a foreigner causes a road traffic accident and bears full or primary responsibility, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall inform the claimant for compensation for damages caused by the road traffic accident that he may apply to the people's court for pre-litigation property preservation measures.

Article 71 Where the traffic management department of the public security organ handles a road traffic accident, the spoken and written language of the People's Republic of China shall be used. For those who do not understand the spoken and written language of my country, a translation shall be provided for them; if the party understands the spoken and written language of my country and does not need translation by others, a written statement shall be issued.

With the approval of the traffic management department of the public security organ, foreign parties may hire their own translators, and the translation fees shall be borne by the parties.
Article 72: When a foreigner who enjoys diplomatic privileges and immunities is involved in a road traffic accident, if the traffic police believe that the driver's license should be temporarily detained or revoked, the driver's license may be detained. If it is necessary to inspect or appraise the vehicle, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall obtain the consent of the foreigner and return the vehicle immediately after the inspection and appraisal; if the foreigner disagrees with the inspection or appraisal, the record shall be kept and the inspection or appraisal shall not be forced. If it is necessary to investigate the foreigner who enjoys diplomatic privileges and immunities, the foreigner may be interviewed, and the interview shall be limited to the content related to the road traffic accident; if the foreigner does not accept the investigation, the record shall be kept.

The traffic management department of the public security organ shall prepare a road traffic accident identification document based on the evidence collected and deliver it to the party concerned. If the party refuses to accept it, it shall be delivered to the institution where the party is located.

If a foreigner who enjoys diplomatic privileges and immunities refuses to accept the investigation or inspection or appraisal, the compensation for damages shall be resolved through diplomatic channels.
Article 73: When the traffic management department of the public security organ handles a fatal accident involving a foreigner who enjoys diplomatic privileges and immunities, it shall record the basic information such as his/her identity, documents, accident process, and damage consequences, and promptly report the relevant situation to the foreign affairs department of the provincial people's government and the embassy or consulate of the foreigner's country in China.

Article 74: When a road traffic accident occurs involving personnel who enjoy privileges and immunities of a foreign consulate in China, an international organization, or a representative office of an international organization in China, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall handle the accident in accordance with the provisions of Articles 73 and 74 of these Regulations, except where there are different provisions in the Regulations on Consular Privileges and Immunities of the People's Republic of China, international conventions to which China has acceded, and agreements concluded between my country and relevant countries or international organizations.

Chapter 10 Supervision of Law Enforcement

Article 75: The police supervision department of the public security organ may, in accordance with the law, conduct on-site supervision of the traffic management department of the public security organ and its traffic police in handling traffic accidents, and investigate and punish illegal and disciplinary violations.

The traffic management department of the superior public security organ shall supervise the traffic management department of the subordinate public security organ in handling road traffic accidents, and shall promptly correct any errors found.
Article 76 If a traffic police violates these regulations and intentionally or negligently causes errors in determining facts, applying laws, violating legal procedures or other law enforcement errors, the administrative, economic and criminal responsibilities of the persons responsible for law enforcement errors shall be investigated in accordance with relevant regulations based on the facts, circumstances, consequences and degree of responsibility of the violations; if serious consequences or adverse effects are caused, the leadership of the traffic management department of the public security organ shall also be investigated.

Article 77 If a traffic police or a public security organ inspection and appraisal personnel needs to recuse themselves, the decision shall be made by the head of the traffic management department of the public security organ at the same level or the public security organ to which the inspection and appraisal personnel belong. If the head of the traffic management department of the public security organ needs to recuse themselves, the decision shall be made by the head of the public security organ or the head of the traffic management department of the public security organ at the next higher level.

The traffic management department of the public security organ shall make a decision within 2 days on the application for recusation submitted by the parties and notify the applicant.
Article 78: If the People's Court or the People's Procuratorate needs the traffic management department of the public security organ to provide relevant evidence when hearing or examining a road traffic accident case, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall transfer the original investigation materials of the road traffic accident case to the People's Court or the People's Procuratorate within 3 days from the date of receiving the official letter of file transfer, or in accordance with the time limit required.

Article 79: The traffic management department of the public security organ shall commend and reward the personnel and units that provide effective clues or assistance in the seizure of vehicles and personnel that have fled the traffic accident.

If the traffic management department of the public security organ and its traffic police fail to cooperate in the investigation after receiving the cooperation notice and cause serious consequences, the public security organ or the superior traffic management department of the public security organ shall investigate the responsibilities of the relevant personnel and the leaders of the unit.

Article 80: After receiving the road traffic accident identification certificate, the parties and their agents may review, copy and extract the evidence materials of the traffic management department of the public security organ in handling the road traffic accident. The traffic management department of the public security organ shall stamp the evidence materials copied by the parties with the special seal of the traffic management department of the public security organ for handling accidents.

Chapter 11 Supplementary Provisions

Article 81 The Regulations on the Management of Qualification Levels for Handling Road Traffic Accidents shall be separately formulated by the Ministry of Public Security, and the format of qualification certificates shall be unified nationwide.

Article 82 The traffic management department of the public security organ shall set up a signboard with the name of the traffic management department of the public security organ in the jurisdiction and the telephone number for reporting road traffic accidents on the national, provincial and county roads at the junction of neighboring provinces, cities (prefectures) and counties, as well as on the road sections with concentrated traffic flow within the jurisdiction.

Article 83 If an accident occurs when a vehicle is traveling outside the road, the traffic management department of the public security organ shall handle it in accordance with these regulations upon receiving a report. If a crime is suspected, it shall be transferred to the relevant departments in a timely manner.

Article 84 The format of legal documents required for the implementation of these regulations shall be formulated by the Ministry of Public Security. If the Ministry of Public Security has not formulated a format, the provincial public security organs may formulate a format for other legal documents required for law enforcement.

If the parties negotiate and handle the matter of damages by themselves, they may prepare an agreement by themselves, but it shall comply with the provisions of Article 14 of these Regulations on the content of the agreement.
Article 85 The following terms in these Regulations have the following meanings:

(i) Hit-and-run refers to the act of a party to a traffic accident driving or abandoning a vehicle to escape from the scene of a traffic accident in order to evade legal prosecution after the occurrence of a traffic accident.

(ii) Conclusion of inspection and appraisal refers to the case where the party fails to apply for re-inspection and appraisal within 3 days from the date when the copy of the inspection and appraisal report is delivered to the party, and the inspection and appraisal agency issues an inspection and appraisal opinion after the traffic management department of the public security organ approves the re-inspection and appraisal.

(iii) 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, 5 days, 10 days and 20 days in these Regulations refer to working days, excluding holidays.

(iv) Above and below in these Regulations include the number itself.

(v) Traffic management department of public security organ at county level (or above) refers to the traffic management department of public security organ of the peoples government at county level (or above) or the traffic management department of public security organ at the same level. "Traffic management department of the public security organ of a city with districts" refers to the traffic management department of the public security organ of the people's government of a city with districts or the traffic management department of the public security organ of the same level. "Public security organ of a city with districts" refers to the public security organ of the people's government of a city with districts or the public security organ of the same level.
(VI) "Fatal accident" refers to a road traffic accident resulting in the death of a person.
(VII) "Property damage accident" refers to a road traffic accident resulting in only property damage.
Article 86 The procedures for handling road traffic accident cases not specified in these Provisions shall be implemented in accordance with the relevant provisions of the "Procedures for Handling Administrative Cases by Public Security Organs" and the "Procedures for Handling Criminal Cases by Public Security Organs".
Article 87 These Provisions shall come into force on January 1, 2009. The "Procedures for Handling Traffic Accidents" (Order No. 70 of the Ministry of Public Security) promulgated on April 30, 2004 shall be repealed at the same time. After the implementation of these Provisions, if there is any inconsistency with these Provisions, these Provisions shall prevail.